# GeoCam - *a web application enabling users to manage their camera traps data*

*GeoCam* is an open-source web application that aims to facilitate biodiversity studies that
 use autonomous data collection devices such as camera traps.
This web-application is in development and offers several features that meet the needs
 of biodiversity stakeholders:
- project management: to delimit the studies according to their context
- management of study sites: to identify spatial scope
- device management: to specify technical characteristics of the tools used in the
 field and their availability
- deployment management: to characterize spatio-temporal limits of data acquisition
- media management: to standardize and optimize the storage of collected data
- media processing: to enable the addition of annotations to the raw data

We would be delighted if you use it, or even contribute in its development.

A demo is available [here](https://geocam.natural-solutions.eu). Don't hesitate to 
try it out!

---

**Documentation (in french for now)**: [GeoCam documentation](https://natural-solutions.gitlab.io/geonature/annotation/)

---

## Installation

### Cloning
Clone this project using git

Go inside the directory generated

Since this app has not been released yet, no commits are available on main
branch. Switch to `dev` branch: 

```
git checkout dev
```

### Settings

Copy the `.env.sample` inside the docker directory to `.env`:

```
cp docker/.env.sample docker/.env
```

Edit freely this `.env` file to change credentials for instance.

### Launching

Docker and docker-compose must be installed on the server/machine. Then:

```
./scripts/docker.sh up -d
```

App will run on `http://localhost:8889/` but the port of each service 
will be avaible to debug.


## Sample data

Sample data can be generated by using the following command:

```
./scripts/docker.sh exec api python -c "from src.connectors.database import init_db; init_db()"
```

## Development

### Launch backend tests

Tests are written with pytest and can be launched with the following
command:

```
./scripts/docker.sh exec api pytest tests --cov-report html:/home/app/src/htmlcov --cov=src
```

The default config assumes that the backend is accessing the database through 
the docker network (via "db" adress) which prevents backend tests from
being run locally (outside a container).

### API/backend documentation

The openapi documentation accessible via swagger is available here:
```
http://localhost:8889/api/v1/docs

```

### GeoCam app documentation (in french for now)

The documentation is generated with mkdocs and is exposed on port 8133 
to be able to work on it with automatic reloading.

```
http://localhost:8133

```

## Contributing

To contribute to this project, please fork and create a pull request, describing the new functionality or bug fixed. Please link to an issue if relevant.
We use 'black' and 'isort' for Python code-formatting, this is checked via a GitHub action.

## Licence

GeoCam  
Copyright (C) 2023 Natural Solutions

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

